# First Draft: Private 5G Networks

## Abstract

5G is the fifth generation of wireless technology. It uses shorted millimeter
wave frequencies on wider spectrum bands to deliver faster speeds and lower
latency. Public 5G networks suffer from the pursuit of high covered to increase
their revenue. This can result in poor coverage indoors, and less than optimal
security. This is where private wireless 5g networks come into play. Private 5g
networks can have optimized coverage and security. This paper will discuss the
benefits and the challenges of this technology.  

## Introduction

A private 5G network is a network dedicated to private use by an organization.
This offers the same benefits as a public 5G network, but with more control over
the users and the security of those users. The control over the security,
policies, services and the transmission of the data can be of large appeal to
companies who are particularly concerned with privacy and security of their
data.

Using graph theory, we can model the network as a graph. The nodes are the
potential locations of the base stations, and the edges are the ways the signal
can be spread strategically. We can use this modeling strategies to properly
depict the movement of the data in the network. Allowing the potential
stakeholders using these networks to fully understand how their data is being
transferred in the network. 

## Methods

Telecommunication expert Ericsson (insert source here) defined 5 key
requirements for private 5G networks: availability, reliability, security,
inter-networking, and quality of service. 

Using techniques like spectrum allocation, or the deployment of our own network
with modern security mechanisms, we can ensure that our network will meet the
criteria Ericsson has set out for us.

TODO: expand on this

### Discuss Spectrum Allocation 

Corporations can lease out spectrum from the mobile network or the government,
depending on the situation.

### Discuss Network Deployment

Deploying you own 5G network can be a daunting task, but this option allows for
the most control over the policies and security of your data. 

## Security Mechanisms 

### End to end encryption

We use AES to encrypt our data, and the TLS protocol to ensure the safety of our
data.

source: https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-642-40041-4_24


### Zero Trust Architecture

ZTA is the concept of not inherently trusting any device This is using micro
segmentation, the principle of least privilege and continuous verification.

https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/specialpublications/NIST.SP.800-207.pdf

### AI powered Threat Detection

With the continuing rise of devices connecting to the internet, some might
consider an automated option to cover the large amount of devices that the
company is overseeing. Having one person look through for anomalies in each user
can be a large task....

TODO: talk about this article below

source: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9775989

### Physical Layer Security

Talk about techniques that we learned about in class that prevent eavesdropping
and jamming. These two attacks are the most common...

TODO: talk about this article below

source: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/5751298


## Use Cases

A study by Ericsson showed that 5G networks can be used in a variety of market
types. 

(insert figure 5 from this [paper](https://www.ericsson.com/assets/local/5g/the-5g-for-business-a-2030-compass-report-2019.pdf))

We can see 10 strong use case clusters for private 5G networks here.

## Results and Discussion

## Conclusion 

## Acknowledgements 

## References 
